<p id="zotero-5-update-warning" style="color: red; font-weight: bold">We’re
in the process of updating the documentation for
<a href="https://www.zotero.org/blog/zotero-5-0">Zotero 5.0</a>. Some documentation
may be outdated in the meantime. Thanks for your understanding.</p>

[Zotero 1.5 Sync Preview](2.0) currently lacks some functionality that will be in place when the public version ships.

## Focus Areas

Testing is needed most in the following areas:

-   Conflict Resolution
    -   Conflicts can be generated by editing the same library items simultaneously on multiple computers.
    -   There may be a few outstanding bugs involving conflict resolution of items with multiple creators. Specific steps to reproduce problems are needed.

## Not yet implemented

-   Synchronization of annotations and highlights
-   Conflict resolution for attachments and collections
-   Conflict resolution for deletions of Zotero objects other than items

## Bugs Reported

-   Sync issues
    -   Sync fails if tags are longer than 256 characters
        -   Workaround: Shorten/separate long tags manually
    -   Periods and other punctuation characters are not allowed in usernames
        -   Workaround: Change your forum username
-   Storage issues
    -   Changing the storage password after a successful server verification does not take effect until Firefox is restarted
-   Notes issues
    -   Tooltips and spellcheck are not available
    -   Auto-save may not trigger when clicking away from note quickly after editing
        -   Workaround: Wait at least one second before clicking away from note
    -   Auto-save doesn't trigger when returning from the HTML editor
        -   Workaround: Click elsewhere in note or make other edits before clicking away
-   Other issues
    -   "Duplicate Item" does not work on items with tags ([#1063](https://www.zotero.org/trac/ticket/1063)).

Bugs marked "fixed on trunk" are fixed on the [development trunk](dev/source_code#development_xpi). The same [data loss warning](2.0#data_loss_warning) applies to the current trunk builds as the Sync Preview, only more so.

To provide helpful bug reports, you generally must be running Zotero with [debug output](debug_output) enabled, as this will allow you to follow the syncing process and view client and server errors.

All bugs should be reported in the [Sync Preview forum](http://forums.zotero.org/10/).
