# Zotero Word Processor Plugin Troubleshooting

This page describes some of the reported issues with the [Zotero word processor plugins](word_processor_integration), together with possible solutions.

## All Plugins/Platforms

### Zotero toolbar doesn't appear

In most cases, the Zotero plugin should appear automatically in the Word ribbon or the LibreOffice toolbar after installing Zotero and restarting the word processor. If you don't see a Zotero tab or toolbar, follow these steps:

1.  Close Word or LibreOffice.
2.  Open the [Zotero settings](preferences), click the Cite tab, and scroll down to the Word Processors section. Click “Install Microsoft Word Add-in” or “Install LibreOffice Add-in”, and then restart your word processor. If you get an error, see [Troubleshooting Errors with Word Processor Plugin Installation](kb/word_processor_plugin_installation_error).
3.  If the installation completes but the Zotero tab or toolbar still doesn't appear in your word processor, follow the [manual installation instructions](word_processor_plugin_manual_installation).

If you still don't see the plugin after performing a manual installation, follow these OS-specific troubleshooting ​steps:

-   [Word for Windows](#zotero_tab_does_not_appear_in_the_word_ribbon)
-   [Word 2016+ for Mac](#zotero_tab_does_not_appear_in_the_word_2016_ribbon)
-   [LibreOffice](#libreoffice)

### Fixing broken documents

If you can insert a Zotero citation in a new, empty document but get an error in an existing document, see [Troubleshooting Errors in Word Processor Documents](kb/debugging_broken_documents).

### Formatting issues

Citations and bibliographies generated by the word processor plugins might appear in a different style (font, font-size, etc) than the surrounding text. The appearance of the generated text can be changed by changing the default style. For example, in Word, open the Styles Manager in Format → Styles or by clicking the "Styles Pane" or "Manage Styles" buttons on the "Home" tab of the ribbon. In LibreOffice, open the Styles Manager in Format → Styles and Formatting or by pressing F12. Right-click on "Default", select "Modify", and make the desired changes to this style.

Bibliography formatting is controlled by the citation style you select in Zotero document preferences and should conform to the requirements of the style in use. The formatting of the bibliography can be modified by editing the "Bibliography" (Word) or "Bibliography 1" (LibreOffice) word processor style.

### Field codes instead of citation/bibliography text

See [Field Codes](kb/word_field_codes).

### Citations/bibliography highlighted

See [Citations Highlighted](kb/citations_highlighted).

### Citations converted to plain text

See [Existing Citations Not Detected](kb/existing_citations_not_detected).

## Word

### Windows

#### Error or non-responsive plugin buttons

-   *"Zotero experienced an error updating your document."*
-   *"Word could not communicate with Zotero. Please ensure Zotero is running and try again.”*

If you see one of the above errors in a **new, empty document** (and not just a [specific existing document](kb/debugging_broken_documents)), or if no citation dialog appears when you click the plugin buttons, try the following steps, testing the plugin after each one.

1.  Close Word, restart Zotero, and then start Word.
2.  If the plugin still isn't working, restart your computer. Start Zotero before starting Word.
3.  If the plugin still isn't working, go to your [Word Startup folder](word_processor_plugin_manual_installation#locating_your_word_startup_folder), delete Zotero.dotm, and restart Word to make sure that the plugin is completely gone from Word. (If the "Zotero" tab isn't disappearing, see the steps in the linked section.) Once the "Zotero" tab is gone from Word, [reinstall the plugin](#zotero_toolbar_doesn_t_appear).
4.  Make sure that you're running Zotero as the same user as Word. Specifically, check to make sure neither program is running as administrator (right-click → Properties → Compatibility). For security and stability reasons, you should typically not run any software as administrator.
5.  Temporarily disable any security software you're running, which could interfere with the connection between Word and Zotero.
6.  If you've set up Zotero to use [multiple Zotero profiles](kb/multiple_profiles) (most people haven't), you might have configured Zotero to launch with the `-no-remote` command-line option. This will prevent the plugins from functioning, and if you've done this you should remove the `-no-remote` command-line option from the shortcut used to launch the Zotero profile. This flag should never be used with Zotero.

#### Zotero tab does not appear in the Word ribbon

First, make sure you've tried the [general troubleshooting steps](#zotero_toolbar_doesn_t_appear).

Other things to try:

**Check if the Zotero plugin is correctly installed and enabled**

Go to File → Options → Add-ins and look for Zotero.dotm in the list:

-   If Zotero.dotm appears under Inactive Application Add-ins, select "Word Add-ins" in the Manage drop-down at the bottom, click "Go…", and make sure Zotero.dotm is ticked.
-   If Zotero.dotm appears under Disabled Application Add-ins, select "Disabled Items" in the Manage drop-down at the bottom, and click "Go…". In the window that pops up, select Zotero.dotm and click Enable.

**Check Trust Center**

1.  Go to File → Options → Trust Center and click "Trust Center Settings…" in the right-hand pane.
2.  Under "Add-ins", make sure that "Require Application Add-ins to be signed by Trusted Publisher" and "Disable all Application Add-ins" are **unchecked**.
3.  Restart Word.
4.  If the Zotero tab is still not present, go back into the Trust Center Settings, open the "Macro Settings" pane, and select "Disable all macros with notification". Restart Word and see if you get a notification asking for macro permissions. Click "Enable Content".

**Check institutional policies**

If the Zotero tab still isn't showing up and this is an institutional computer, you should contact your IT department, as they may be blocking Word templates from running or modifying the user interface (e.g., the Microsoft Intune policy "Disable UI extending from documents and templates", which changes the `noextensibilitycustomizationfromdocument` registry key).

**Reset Normal.dotm**

If you have modified you or someone else modified Normal.dotm template on your machine, the Zotero tab may fail to appear. You can reset it to default settings by temporarily removing it from its default location.

1.  Close Word.
2.  Press Windows+R, paste \`%APPDATA%\\Microsoft\\Templates\` into the dialog and click OK. An Explorer window will appear.
3.  Rename the \`Normal.dotm\` file to \`Normal.dotm.bak\` or temporarily move it somewhere else, like your desktop.
4.  Restart Word and see if the Zotero tab appears.

#### Zotero tab has an empty label

If after installing the plugin the Zotero tab has an empty label, it means Word Macro settings are preventing the Zotero plugin from running.

1.  In Word, go File → Options.
2.  Select the Trust Center panel and click the "Trust Center Settings…" button
3.  Select the Trusted Locations panel and make sure that the Word default location startup is in this list.

You can find your Word Startup location in Word Options → Advanced, by clicking the "File Locations…" button at the bottom of the panel.

#### Error "Could not find a running Word instance"

See [Could not find a running Word instance](kb/could_not_find_a_running_word_instance).

#### Run-time error '5097': Word has encountered a problem.

This issue affects the users of the Windows 10 October 2018 Update. To fix it you will need to change your regional format to English:

1.  In “Windows settings” go to the page for “Region”, which has settings for “Regional format”
2.  Change that setting to "English (United States)" or “English (United Kingdom)”
3.  Restart Word

#### "This command is not available because no document is open"

Zotero's Word add-on may not work for documents in OneDrive. If you encounter this error, move your document to a different folder. Other cloud-syncing services such as Dropbox or Google Drive are not affected. (Note that Zotero documents should not be opened or edited in Google Drive's word processor as this [will break Zotero citations](#_citations_converted_to_plain_text). See [this thread](https://forums.zotero.org/discussion/41885/ms-word-2013-plugin-stopped-working-in-single-document/#Item_9) for details and developments.)

### Mac

#### Zotero tab does not appear in the Word 2016+ ribbon

First, make sure you've tried the [general troubleshooting steps](#zotero_toolbar_doesn_t_appear).

Make sure you're running the latest stable version of Word.

If the tab still does not appear, check whether the plugin was installed in Word correctly:

1.  Go to Tools → Templates and Add-ins.
2.  Make sure that "Zotero.dotm" is present under Global Templates and Add-ins and is checked.

If Zotero.dotm still doesn't show up, you may not have correctly performed the [manual installation steps](word_processor_plugin_manual_installation) to copy Zotero.dotm to your current Word Startup folder.

#### “Word could not communicate with Zotero. Please ensure that Zotero is open and try again.”

First, make sure the Zotero app is open and running on your computer. Note that this is the Zotero program, not the Zotero website or Zotero Connector in your browser.

If Zotero is open and you're still receiving this error, you likely don't have the latest version of the Zotero plugin in Word. Go to your [Word Startup folder](word_processor_plugin_manual_installation#locating_your_word_startup_folder), delete Zotero.dotm, restart Word, and confirm that the Zotero tab is gone from Word. If it doesn't disappear, follow the instructions for identifying your *active* Word Startup folder, delete Zotero.dotm from there as well, and reset your Word Startup folder location to the default to avoid future problems. Once the Zotero tab is gone from Word, follow the steps under [#Zotero toolbar doesn't appear](#Zotero toolbar doesn't appear).

If you modified your Zotero installation to work with multiple instances, you may need to do [additional configuration](kb/multiple_instances#word). This does not apply to most users.

#### No response from plugin

If you get no response when you attempt to use the Word plugin, try the following steps:

1.  Restart Word and try again.
2.  If the plugin still isn't working in Word, go to your [Word Startup folder](word_processor_plugin_manual_installation#locating_your_word_startup_folder), delete Zotero.dotm, and restart Word to make sure that the plugin is completely gone from Word. Then [reinstall the plugin](#zotero_toolbar_doesn_t_appear).

#### Run-time error '5': Invalid procedure call or argument

Some macOS audio plugins Voxengo SPAN or Voloco may interfere with the Zotero Word plugin. They can be found at `~/Library/Audio/Plug-Ins/Components`. Try temporarily removing the plugins and test if the issue persists.

#### Clipboard software interference

If you have any software installed that interacts with the MacOS clipboard, e.g. by providing clipboard history, it may interfere with the Zotero plugin. If you are having problems inserting citations, you should temporarily disable the clipboard software. If that doesn't resolve the issue, temporarily remove the software and restart your Mac.

### Linux

The Zotero Word for Windows plugin does not work out of the box under WINE, CrossOver Office, or other compatibility environments for Linux. We do not support running the Word for Windows plugin under Linux, and advise users to use LibreOffice instead. If you absolutely must run Zotero in WINE, [this forum thread](/forum/discussion/12426/) has some helpful tips.

As of March 2016, the following steps should work getting Office 2010 run with Zotero.

1\. Install Office 2010 and Zotero on Wine

2\. Change directory to */home/%user%/.wine/drive_c/users/%user%/Application Data/Microsoft/Word/STARTUP*/. Substitute "Zotero.dot" file with [this](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B-FGaNOW8dnudEpuZDdnNnBVUmc/edit?usp=sharing) file

3\. Open Zotero.

4\. Open Microsoft Word.

Thanks to Sudarlin Laoddang for providing these instructions on his [blog](http://sudarlin.blogspot.pt/2015/03/running-zotero-ms-word-di-wine.html?showComment=1458032475297#c6126731001028222510).

## LibreOffice

### All Platforms

Zotero requires LibreOffice 5.2 or later. If you are using an older version, upgrade to the current version of LibreOffice. See [System Requirements](system_requirements#word_processor_plugins). Apache OpenOffice and NeoOffice are based on older versions of LibreOffice and are not supported by Zotero.

#### Installation error

At the last step of LibreOffice Integration installation, you may see the message

*"Installation could not be completed because an error occurred."*

See the [installation troubleshooting instructions](kb/word_processor_plugin_installation_error#libreoffice).

#### Toolbar is missing

Check if there's an entry for Zotero under View → Toolbars. If not, look for the Zotero LibreOffice Integration plugin in Tools → Extension Manager. If it's in not there, return to Zotero and the Cite pane of the Zotero settings. In the "Word Processors" settings, click the "Install LibreOffice Add-in" button. If you get an error, refer to the [installation troubleshooting instructions](kb/word_processor_plugin_installation_error#libreoffice)

#### Buttons are unresponsive after updating LibreOffice

Unresponsive Zotero toolbar buttons are an indication of LibreOffice not having access to a working Java JRE. Refer to the [installation troubleshooting instructions](kb/word_processor_plugin_installation_error#libreoffice).

#### Add Extension(s)...does not exist error

When attempting to manually install Zotero LibreOffice Integration, you may see the message

*Add extension(s): &lt;DIRECTORY&gt;/Zotero_LibreOffice_Integration.oxt does not exist*

We believe this is caused by a corrupt LibreOffice profile directory. Move or delete the [LibreOffice profile directory](https://wiki.documentfoundation.org/UserProfile), then follow the [instructions above](#zotero_toolbar_doesn_t_appear) to reinstall the Zotero LibreOffice extension. (This will revert any LibreOffice settings you have customized to their default state.)
